
# CustomBlockchain

This is a test blockchain to learn and practice concepts of blockchain

The aim of this tutorial series, is to help you build a picture of how one could develop blockchain technology.

In this tutorial we will :

- Create your first (very) basic ‘blockchain’.

- Implement a simple proof of work ( mining ) system.

  
  

## Create your first (very) basic ‘blockchain’.

#### Q. In a P2P network how to ensure the data shared between peers is not tampered?
**Solution -** 
 - Chunk the data into blocks and link blocks with each other through hashes.
 - Each block will have hash of previous block. 
 - So if a block is tampered, then all the consecutive blocks gets impacted as the consecutive block hashes has to be changed.

 **Example**

 - Let's say some field inside block with block number 123 is modified, then the hash of block number 123 got changed.
 - Now Block number 124 has to be modified since the prevHash field(hash of block number 123) got changed.
 - Now Block Number 125 has to be modified since the prevHash field(hash of block number 124) got changed.
From above solution, To modify one block, now peer has to modify all the consecutive blocks.

  
  
## Implement a simple proof of work ( mining ) system.

#### Q. What is stopping peers to modify all the consecutive blocks?
**Solution -** 

 1. Let's say longest blockchain is accepted by the network and make the block generation computationally expensive through proof of work.
 2.  So that, the peer who is tampering a block has to spend lot of time to compute the consecutive blocks.
 3.  In the mean time, new blocks will be generated by other peers who forms the longest chain.

A tampered blockchain will not be able to catch up with a longer & valid chain. Unless they have computational power more than 50 percent of peers in the network.
